README.md, before:

# BEL Parsing package

BEL parsing python package

## Initial Plans

An approach is to use an EBNF template for BEL and a JSON-based data file to create a fully-specified EBNF input for a parsing generator that will allow us to process a potential full or partial BEL statement, convert it to an AST and be able to convert an AST back to a BEL Statement.

## Goals

* Read a standard language descriptor file (e.g. EBNF) for parser generation
* Use configuration files for creating a BEL V.x parser/validator/autocomplete engine
* Allow full or partial BEL Statements
* Identify syntax issues in the statement and provide suggestions on fixing them
* Identify semantic issues in the statement and provide suggestions on fixing them
* Identify unknown Namespaces or Namespace values
* Read a Nanopub and validate the full Nanopub, e.g. the BEL statement, Annotations, Citation, etc
* Provide location-based parser state information (e.g. location 10 is in the required parameter part of a protein abundance - e.g. the protein value)
* Provide autocompletion suggestions given a location in the BEL Statement
* Convert BEL statements into an AST and then back into a BEL Statement

Commit message:

Updated versioning and dev notes

README.md, after:

# BEL Language Parsing package

BEL Language

## Initial Plans

An approach is to use an EBNF template for BEL and a JSON-based data file to create a fully-specified EBNF input for a parsing generator that will allow us to process a potential full or partial BEL statement, convert it to an AST and be able to convert an AST back to a BEL Statement.

## Goals

* Read a standard language descriptor file (e.g. EBNF) for parser generation
* Use configuration files for creating a BEL V.x parser/validator/autocomplete engine
* Allow full or partial BEL Statements
* Identify syntax issues in the statement and provide suggestions on fixing them
* Identify semantic issues in the statement and provide suggestions on fixing them
* Identify unknown Namespaces or Namespace values
* Read a Nanopub and validate the full Nanopub, e.g. the BEL statement, Annotations, Citation, etc
* Provide location-based parser state information (e.g. location 10 is in the required parameter part of a protein abundance - e.g. the protein value)
* Provide autocompletion suggestions given a location in the BEL Statement
* Convert BEL statements into an AST and then back into a BEL Statement


## Development Notes

We will develop a makefile to handle updating the BEL versions, creating EBNF files,
updating the version, running tests and deploying the package to PyPi.

### Setting up bel_lang for local development

1. `git clone git@github.com:belbio/bel_lang.git`
1. `cd bel_lang`
1. Setup Virtual Environment `python3.6 -m venv .venv --prompt bel_lang`
1. Install python packages needed `pip install -r requirements.txt`
1. Install local bel_lang `pip install -e .`

### Updating version

Use one of the following commands depending on what part of the semantic version you
want to increase.

    bumpversion major
    bumpversion minor
    bumpversion patch

These commands use the .bumpversion.cfg file to determine in which files to update the
semantic version.
